update autocomplete rule to current writing style (#1415)
act-rules/act-rules.github.io: _rules/autocomplete-valid-value-73f2c2.md

## Applicability

The rule applies to any HTML `input`, `select` and `textarea` element with an `autocomplete` [attribute value][] that is neither empty (`""`) nor only [ASCII whitespace][], except if one of the following is true:

> - The element is not [visible][], and not [included in the accessibility tree][]; or
> - The element is an `input` element with a `type` [attribute value][] of either `hidden`, `button`, `submit` or `reset`; or
> - The element has an `aria-disabled` [attribute value][] of `true`; or
> - The element is not part of [sequential focus navigation][] and has a [semantic role][] that is not a [widget role][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (**not perceivable**) the element is not [visible][], and not [included in the accessibility tree][]; or
- (**inactive**) the element is an `input` element with a `type` [attribute value][] of either `hidden`, `button`, `submit` or `reset`; or
- (**disabled**) the element has an `aria-disabled` [attribute value][] of `true`; or
- (**not in focus order**) the element is not part of [sequential focus navigation][] and has a [semantic role][] that is not a [widget role][].
```

Author: Did this slightly differently, but good idea.

## Expectation 1

Each test target's `autocomplete` [attribute value][] is a [space separated][] list of one or more tokens that follow the [HTML specification for Autofill detail tokens][], which requires that the token list match the following in the correct order:

1. An optional token that starts with "section-"; then
2. An optional token of either "shipping" or "billing"; then
3. An optional token of either "home", "work", "mobile", "fax" or "pager", only if the last token is "email", "impp", "tel" or "tel-*"; then
4. A required token from the [correct autocomplete field][].

## Expectation 2

> Each test target's `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has a [correct autocomplete field][] that is an [appropriate][appropriate field for the form control] for that test target.

Reviewer 2: I refered to this part in #1400 
Please check if I got it right.

## Assumptions

> For this rule, it is assumed that the `autocomplete` attribute is not used on form fields that do not correspond to an autocomplete field described in the HTML 5.2 specification. If the `autocomplete` field is used to describe "custom" taxonomy, rather than that described in the specification, the [1.3.5: Identify Input Purpose][sc135] may be satisfied even if this rule failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `autocomplete` attribute is not used on form fields that do not correspond to an autocomplete field described in the HTML 5.2 specification. If the `autocomplete` field is used to describe "custom" taxonomy, rather than that described in the specification, Success Criterion [1.3.5 Identify Input Purpose][sc135] may be satisfied even if this rule failed.
```

> The `autocomplete` attribute is not used on form fields that do not correspond to an autocomplete field described in the HTML 5.2 specification. If the `autocomplete` field is used to describe "custom" taxonomy, rather than that described in the specification, Success Criterion [1.3.5 Identify Input Purpose][sc135] may be satisfied even if this rule failed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `autocomplete` attribute is not used on form fields that do not correspond with an autocomplete field described in the HTML 5.2 specification. If the `autocomplete` field is used to describe "custom" taxonomy, rather than that described in the specification, Success Criterion [1.3.5 Identify Input Purpose][sc135] may be satisfied even if this rule failed.
```

Reviewer 2: Feels more accurate to me, feel free to ignore it.

Author: This doesn't seem right to me.... Not a native speaker though. If you feel what I've got now is incorrect I can ask someone who's trained for this stuff.

Reviewer 3: Although either is acceptable English, an online check seems to prefer 'correspond to' for things like objects, laws or map co-ordinates, while 'correspond with' is for things like communicating or moving with another person.

## Applicability

The rule applies to any HTML `input`, `select` and `textarea` element with an `autocomplete` [attribute value][] that is neither empty (`""`) nor only [ASCII whitespace][], except if one of the following is true:

- **hidden**: the element is not [visible][], and not [included in the accessibility tree][]; or
- **disabled**: the element has an `aria-disabled` [attribute value][] of `true`; or
- **fixed value**: the element is an `input` element with a `type` [attribute value][] of either `hidden`, `button`, `submit` or `reset`; or
- **static**: the element is not part of [sequential focus navigation][] and has a [semantic role][] that is not a [widget role][].

## Expectation 1

> Each test target's `autocomplete` [attribute value][] is a [space separated][] list of one or more tokens that follow the [HTML specification for Autofill detail tokens][], which requires that the token list match the following in the correct order:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each test target's `autocomplete` [attribute value][] is a [space separated][] list of one or more tokens that follow the [HTML specification for Autofill detail tokens][].
```

Reviewer 2: That last sentence after the comma is repeated at the beginning of Expectation 2.

1. An optional token that starts with "section-"; then
2. An optional token of either "shipping" or "billing"; then
3. An optional token of either "home", "work", "mobile", "fax" or "pager", only if the last token is "email", "impp", "tel" or "tel-*"; then

> 4. A required token from the [correct autocomplete field][].

Reviewer 3: I see you've built the correct order stuff into the above. Is a note about case-insensitive still relevant/needed?

Author: I didn't think so, that's why I took it out.

Reviewer 3: OK

## Expectation 2

Each test target's `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has a [correct autocomplete field][] that is an [appropriate][appropriate field for the form control] for that test target.

## Assumptions

The `autocomplete` attribute is not used on form fields that do not correspond to an autocomplete field described in the HTML 5.2 specification. If the `autocomplete` field is used to describe "custom" taxonomy, rather than that described in the specification, success Criterion [1.3.5 Identify Input Purpose][sc135] may be satisfied even if this rule failed. 

The `type` attribute is used correctly according to the intended purpose of `input` elements. If an incorrect `type` attribute is used for `input` elements, this rule may fail elements that satisfy success Criterion [1.3.5 Identify Input Purpose][sc135]. For example if an `input` element has a `type` of `number`, but is expecting an e-mail address.

## Accessibility Support

> - While `autocomplete` in a promising technique for supporting personalization in HTML, support for this in assistive technologies is fairly limited.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- While `autocomplete` is a promising technique for supporting personalization in HTML, support for this in assistive technologies is fairly limited.
```

Suspect a typo

## Assumptions

The `autocomplete` attribute is not used on form fields that do not correspond to an autocomplete field described in the HTML 5.2 specification. If the `autocomplete` field is used to describe "custom" taxonomy, rather than that described in the specification, success Criterion [1.3.5 Identify Input Purpose][sc135] may be satisfied even if this rule failed. 

> If an incorrect `type` attribute is used for `input` elements, this rule may fail elements that satisfy success Criterion [1.3.5 Identify Input Purpose][sc135]. For example if an `input` element has a `type` of `number`, but is expecting an e-mail address.

Reviewer: Can we state the assumption, not only the consequence of it not holding?
```suggestion
The `type` attribute is used correctly according to the intended purpose of `input` elements. If an incorrect `type` attribute is used for `input` elements, this rule may fail elements that satisfy success Criterion [1.3.5 Identify Input Purpose][sc135]. For example if an `input` element has a `type` of `number`, but is expecting an e-mail address.
```

#### Passed Example 1

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] is only has the required token, and is valid for an `input` element which has a default type of `text`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] only has the required token, and is valid for an `input` element which has a default type of `text`.
```

Also, should technically be "`type` [attribute value][]", but it is probably OK to keep it that way in an example description (we may want to unify with other descriptions, e.g. Passed Examples 5 and 6 use the technically correct way…)

```html
<label>Username<input autocomplete="username"/></label>
```

#### Passed Example 2

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] is only has the required token, and is valid for a `select` element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] only has the required token, and is valid for a `select` element.
```

#### Passed Example 3

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] only has the required token, and is valid for a `textarea` element. Missing upper and lower case letters is allwed for `autocomplete` attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] only has the required token, and is valid for a `textarea` element. Mixing upper and lower case letters is allowed for `autocomplete` attributes.
```

```html
<textarea autocomplete="Street-Address"></textarea>
```

#### Passed Example 4

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has a `work` token, allowed because it is used before `email`. The `email` taken is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has a `work` token, allowed because it is used before `email`. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.
```

```html
<label>Work email<input autocomplete="Work Email"/></label>
```

#### Passed Example 5

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has a `section-` token, which can preface any [correct autocomplete field][]. The `email` taken is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has a `section-` token, which can preface any [correct autocomplete field][]. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.
```

```html
<label>Email<input autocomplete="section-partner email"/></label>
```

#### Passed Example 6

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has `section-`  and `billing` tokens. These tokens can preface any [correct autocomplete field][]. The `email` taken is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has `section-`  and `billing` tokens. These tokens can preface any [correct autocomplete field][]. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.
```

```html
<label>Address<input type="text" autocomplete="section-primary billing address-line1"/></label>
```

#### Passed Example 7

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has all allowed types of tokens in the correct order. The `email` taken is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has all allowed types of tokens in the correct order. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.
```

```html
<label>Email<input autocomplete="section-primary shipping work email"/></label>
```

#### Passed Example 8

> The `autocomplete` attribute value is on an `input` element that does not have a semantic role that is a widget role, but still participates in sequential focus navigation because of the [`tabindex` attribute](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#the-tabindex-attribute).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `autocomplete` attribute value is on an `input` element that does not have a semantic role that is a widget role, but still participates in [sequential focus navigation][] because of the [`tabindex` attribute](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#the-tabindex-attribute).
```
Plus, we usually don't link to specs for elements and attributes names, so the link to `tabindex` could probably be removed.

#### Passed Example 3

This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] only has the required token, and is valid for a `textarea` element. Mixing upper and lower case letters is allowed for `autocomplete` attributes.

```html
<textarea autocomplete="Street-Address"></textarea>
```

#### Passed Example 4

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has a `work` token, allowed because it is used before `email`. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.

Reviewer 3: I think sometimes the outgoing short phrases are a little clearer about certain things. In this case that this example has a list of terms in the attribute value ...

```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] list includes a `work` token, allowed because it is used before `email`. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.
```

```html
<label>Work email<input autocomplete="Work Email"/></label>
```

#### Passed Example 5

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has a `section-` token, which can preface any [correct autocomplete field][]. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] list includes a `section-` token, which can preface any [correct autocomplete field][]. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.
```

```html
<label>Email<input autocomplete="section-partner email"/></label>
```

#### Passed Example 6

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has `section-`  and `billing` tokens. These tokens can preface any [correct autocomplete field][]. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] list includes `section-`  and `billing` tokens. These tokens can preface any [correct autocomplete field][]. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.
```

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] list includes `section-`  and `billing` tokens. These tokens can preface any [correct autocomplete field][]. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] list includes `section-`  and `billing` tokens. These tokens can preface any [correct autocomplete field][]. 
```

Reviewer 2: I think that you meant to write that in the next example.

```html
<label>Address<input type="text" autocomplete="section-primary billing address-line1"/></label>
```

#### Passed Example 7

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has all allowed types of tokens in the correct order. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] list includes all allowed types of tokens in the correct order. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.
```

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] list includes all allowed types of tokens in the correct order. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] list includes all allowed types of tokens in the correct order. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`. The `email` token is allowed on `input` elements with a `type` [attribute value][] of `text`.
```

```html

> <label>Email<input autocomplete="section-primary shipping work email"/></label>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<label>Email<input type="text" autocomplete="section-primary shipping work email"/></label>
```

#### Failed Example 1

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] does not have a [correct autocomplete field][].

Reviewer 3: I think sometimes the previous short phrases were a little clearer about certain things. In this case because 'not correct' doesn't convey quite the same thing as 'unknown'.

```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has an unknown term that is not a [correct autocomplete field][].
```

```html
<label>Username<input autocomplete="badterm"/></label>
```

#### Failed Example 2

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] has the `work` token on a [correct autocomplete field][] that does not support this.

Reviewer 3: Is work not allowed with photo, or is it in the wrong order?

Author: It is not allowed. I'll update the text to make this clearer.

```html
<label>Photo<input autocomplete="work photo"/></label>
```

#### Failed Example 3

This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] includes the `work` token before the `shipping` token, instead of the other way around.

```html
<label>Email<input autocomplete="work shipping email"/></label>
```

#### Failed Example 4

This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] is comma separated instead of space using [ASCII whitespace][].

```html
<label>Email<input autocomplete="work,email"/></label>
```

#### Failed Example 5

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] is not appropriate for the field. It is not possible to type an e-mail using just numbers.

Reviewer 3: Based on JYM's point about making it clear the autocomplete is the error example...

```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] is not appropriate for the field. The form field's implied purpose is to input a quantity (a number) which cannot be a e-mail.
```

This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] is not appropriate for the field. It is not possible to type an e-mail using just numbers.

```html

> <label>Quantity<input type="number" autocomplete="email"/></label>

Reviewer: Wouldn't that fail the second Assumption? I don't think we should have examples for which the Assumptions don't hold (at least, we don't have any currently as far as I can tell).

Reviewer 2: The second assumption is that incorrect `type` attribute is failing this rule (because of the assumption itself) but it doesn't necessarily fail 1.3.5. which I think makes the failed example correct. I think that both the incorrect `type` attribute or `autocomplete="off"` on the parent `<form>` can prevent browsers from autocompleting the value but they do not prevent the purpose of the widget from being programmatically determinable.

My issue is that this rule has 1.3.5 as the accessibility requirement. On the rule design page, in the [accessibility requirements section,](https://act-rules.github.io/pages/design/rule-design/#accessibility-requirements) it says: 

> List all accessibility requirements that are not satisfied if one or more outcomes of a rule fail. For example, this could be one or more WCAG success criteria, or a WAI-ARIA rule

So, the failed example 5 does not really map to 1.3.5. At least in my opinion.

Author: This isn't an example of the new assumption. It's the opposite. That's why the label changed. The label and type suggest it needs a number, but the autocomplete attribute is inconsistent with that. That's a failure of expectation 2. Clearly this is creating some confusion though, so if you have a suggestion on how to improve this, that would be great.

Reviewer: 🤔 
Let me try and get the detailed explanation…
- For `input` elements, the correctness of the `autocomplete` attribute depends on the type of the element as you can't autocomplete a number the same way as you autocomplete an address.
- A mismatch between `type` and `autocomplete` thus means that one of them is wrong, but there is no way to decide which as it depends on the intention of the author, something we do not have access to.
- Thus, the rule assumes that `type` is correct and can focus on flagging `autocomplete` errors. Hence the new assumption.
- This example had a wrong `type="number"` (with an intention of "email") and is now updated to try and have an intention of "number" (so that `type` is correct and the rule can work).
✔️ I agree this is a correct example.

I think we need to also update the description to make the intention (of this `input`) clear. Especially, "it is not possible to type an e-mail using just numbers" is what lead me to believe that the intention of this `input` was "email" rather than "number".

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] is not appropriate for the field. The form field is intended to input a quantity (a number) which cannot be a e-mail.

or something like that, i.e. the problem is not that we can't type an e-mail with numbers but rather than an e-mail will not be composed solely of numbers, same-same-ish, but different in the direction we read the (non)-equivalence. The current description looks like "duh, you're asking me to type my e-mail with numbers!?" and should be moved to "duh, you're taking my e-mail and consider that it is a number!?"

Reviewer 2: Yep, I was focusing too much on the combination between the `type` attribute and the `autocomplete`. I didn't think about the purpose of the `<label>`.

The combination of the correct `<label>`, correct `autocomplete` and incorrect `type` attribute could be mentioned in the expectation.

Author: Using Emma's suggestion for the description.

#### Inapplicable Example 1

This `button` element does not support `autocomplete` attributes.

```html
<button autocomplete="username"></button>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 2

This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] is empty ("").

```html
<label>Username<input autocomplete=""/></label>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 3

This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] contains only [ASCII whitespace][].

```html
<label>Username<input autocomplete=" "/></label>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 4

> This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] is on an element is hidden through `display:none`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `autocomplete` [attribute value][] is on an element that is not[visible][] through `display:none`.
```
I prefer keeping the same terms as the Applicability.

```html
<label>Username<input autocomplete="username" style="display:none"/></label>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 5

This `autocomplete` attribute is on an `input` element with a `type` [attribute value][] that does not support autocomplete.

```html
<label>Username<input type="button" autocomplete="username"/></label>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 6

This `autocomplete` attribute is on an `input` element that has the `disabled` attribute.

```html
<label>Username<input autocomplete="username" disabled/></label>

> ```

Reviewer: I'm actually not seeing anything in Applicability about the `disabled` attribute 🤔 
Well, I guess that setting `disabled` will also automatically set `aria-disabled`… But then this description needs a bit more details (and the example is similar to the next). Otherwise, the Applicability needs to update the **disabled** condition to take that into account, probably referencing https://act-rules.github.io/glossary/#disabled-element

Author: I noticed that too. I'm tackling that separately.
